Javascript is a JIT language. Meaning the code that we write compiles before execution, but the compilation happens right before the execution. There are some steps in order to compile the code. Tokenizing/lexing, is the action to turn `var foo = 3;` to some meaningful data. Then it would parse that data into a AST (abstract syntax tree). Afterwards the compiler uses the AST to generate the codes that engine has to run. It Also worth mentioning that the compiler does some optimization too.

Scope is basically a set of rules of where and how variables are stored. When the compiler encounter interaction with variables, it asks scope to get their value or pointer to do something with it.

The compiler has two way of reaching a variable, LHS ans RHS. LHS is typically when the reference to the variable is on the left hand side of an equal sign. It is when the compiler wants to store some data in the variable or change it. But RHS is the opposite. In fact it is better to think of RHS as NOT LHS, since it does not always appear on the right hand side of an equal sign. RHS happens when the compiler or the engine just want the value of a variable.

When a variable has LHS reference, (not a deceleration like `let bar = 5;`, rather this `a = 1;`) the engine would ask the current scope to find the reference for the variable, if it does not finds it, the engine goes to the upper scope until it finds it, it it never finds it even in the global scope, it would ask the global scope to make that variable. Thas's why some uninitialized variables make unwanted global variables. In `strict mode` though, this operation would raise and `ReferenceError`.

When a RHS access happens, the behaivor is somewhat the same, the engine would climb up the scope chain to find the variable and retreive its value. If it never finds it, a `ReferenceError` would happen. There is some other error that could happen here too. Suppose you want to run this `foo.bar()`, there is a RHS reference to `foo` here, but imagine the `bar` propery of foo is not a function, this time a `TypeError` will be raised. Note that the RHS and scope resolution was successful here, but an impossible/illegal action has happened with the result.
